SQL
In order to work with relational databases, you will need to get familiar with SQL syntax. A lot of developers will acknowledge that they find the SQL syntax unpleasantly hard to use, which has some outcomes:

Engineers that are comfortable with SQL are very respected in the industry, even more so in this age where data has gotten so valuable. To be honest, the fact that I aced the SQL challenge on my Apple interview is probably a huge reason for me to have gotten the job; it turns out the initial role was a lot about manipulating data.
The fear of SQL explains a lot why non-relational databases got called “NoSQL”, a bit like if it was a statement, a complain. Non-relational databases push a lot the button of not having to use SQL.
Modern full-fledged frameworks contain tools that are called ORMs, and one of their roles is to abstract away SQL queries (which is good for day-to-day ease of use, but can turn out very dangerous). We’ll cover ORMs more later, but it’s worth noting that you do find back-end engineers in the industry who work with relational databases, but never write a line of SQL, which makes them a lot less valuable on a project.
For a beginner, keep in mind that SQL’s syntax is a bit hard to wrap your head around, so maybe you should follow a tutorial first. Please don’t try to memorize the SQL syntax. I’ve used SQL extensively in very advanced cases, on systems with hundreds of millions of records, and I still go on Google each time I need to compose a SQL query.
